## Udactity Data Engineer Nanodegree Project: Data Modeling with Postgres
A startup called Sparkify wants to analyze the data they've been collecting on songs and user activity on their new music streaming app. The analytics team is particularly interested in understanding what songs users are listening to. Currently, they don't have an easy way to query their data, which resides in a directory of JSON logs on user activity on the app, as well as a directory with JSON metadata on the songs in their app.

They'd like a data engineer to create a Postgres database with tables designed to optimize queries on song play analysis, and bring you on the project. Your role as a data engineer is to create a database schema and ETL pipeline for this analysis. You'll be able to test your database and ETL pipeline by running queries given to you by the analytics team from Sparkify and compare your results with their expected results.

### Datasets available

The Song Dataset is a subset of real data from the [Million Song Dataset](https://labrosa.ee.columbia.edu/millionsong/). Each file is in JSON format and contains metadata about a song and the artist of that song. The files are partitioned by the first three letters of each song's track ID.

The Log Dataset consists of log files in JSON format generated by [this event simulator](https://github.com/Interana/eventsim) based on the songs in the dataset above. These simulate activity logs from a music streaming app based on specified configurations. The log files in the dataset are partitioned by year and month.

### Project Steps-Create tables
* Write create table statements to create each table and drop statements to drop each table if it exist.  
* Execute the create_tables.py script to generate the database and its tables by executing `python3 create_tables.py`.
* Execute test.ipynb to confirm the creation of your tables with the correct columns.

### Project Steps-ETL Process
* Load the data and insert it to the database by executing `python3 etl.py`.

### Schema Design

* The fact table `songplays` stores the records in log data associated with song plays i.e. records with page.
* The dimension table `users` stores the users in the app.
* The dimension table `song` stores the songs in the music database.
* The dimension table `artists` stores the artists the in music database.
* The dimension table `time` stores the timestamps of records in songplays broken down into specific units.

### Purpose of this database

This database allows to aggregate all songs, artists, users and songplays in a single database. In this way, the company disposes of the needed data stored in a unique structure and make the analysis of different scenarios easy. For instance, one can easily find out total paid and free users and their details in a time frame, the popularity based on number of time /most access of different songs and/or artists. Popularity of artist can be drill down by geographycal region. For instance it can be determine which song and/or artist is popular in which country and region.

### Pyton Scripts execution
* The database and its tables were generated by executing create_tables script using command  python3 create_tables.py at teriminal/console.
* Load all the data from log_files and insert it to the database by executing python3 etl.py in similar manner.

### Justification of database schema design and ETL pipeline
* I chose to use Time as data type for column start_time of table time to insert timestamp data without time zone
* I chose artist_id to be the PRIMARY KEY because song select query need to be join with songs.artist_id = artists.artist_id.
* In same reason (needs to be joined with artist with condition) duration colum of table songs has the restriction NOT NULL 


### Example queries and results for song play analysis




